add templating functions article (#25)
glu-lang/glu-book: _docs/templating_functions.md

---
title: Templating Functions
category: Templates
---

> Template functions (or generic functions) allow you to write functions that can operate on different types of data while maintaining type safety. This makes your code more flexible and reusable. In our language, the syntax for defining a template function is straightforward. Here’s how you can define and use a template function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Templated functions (or generic functions) allow you to write functions that can operate on different types of data while maintaining type safety. This makes your code more flexible and reusable. In Glu, the syntax for defining a template function is straightforward. Here’s how you can define and use a template function.
```

## Definition of a Template Function

> Let's define a simple template function called id that returns its input argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's define a simple templated function named `id` that returns its input argument:
```

```glu
func id<T>(a: T) -> T {
    std::print(a);
    return a;
}
```

Here's an explanation of the components:

## Template Declaration:

```glu
func id<T>
```

This declares a template function named id with a generic type T. The type T can be any type (e.g., Int, String, custom struct, etc.).

Function Parameters and Return Type:

```glu
(a: T) -> T
```

The function takes a single parameter a of type T and returns a value of the same type T.

> ## Function Implementation:

Reviewer: these should not be sections at all, just explain it

```glu
return a;
````

The function simply returns the input parameter a.

> Using the Template Function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Template Function
```

You can use the template function id with different types of data. Here are a few examples:

### Using the Function with an Integer:

```glu
let intValue : Int = id<Int>(42)
std::print(intValue) // Output: 42
```

### Using the Function with a String:

```glu
let stringValue : String = id<String>("Hello, world!")
std::print(stringValue) // Output: Hello, world!
```

> ### Using the Function with a Custom Type:

Reviewer: Use sentences instead of sub-sections

Let's assume we have a Person structure:

```glu
struct Person {
    name: String
    age: Int
}

> let person = Person(name: "Alice", age: 30)

Reviewer: this is not initializer syntax and semicolons are missing
```suggestion
let person = {"Alice", 30 };
```

let personValue = id(person)
print(personValue.name) // Output: Alice

> print(personValue.age)  // Output: 30

Reviewer: std::
